This natural status, when you got this realization or when you discover that status, there's no
difference between realization of the Buddha Samyant Bhaddara and your self. It's the same
name, single natural state, single natural status. And how wonderful, how amazing, that
is again here, the great Master Chaka Chororo said, and as well as his Holiness Bhajan Bhajan
also in the teaching said, the moment, how amazing, how fortunate we can instantly, instantly
to grab or discover the original Dharmakaya status free from any negativities or defilements.
How amazing, how fortunate we can grab, grabbing or beholding that realization and how important.
And then so that that is what it really is. And then how this is salt-borne, salt-borne
original Buddha that which is inherited right now, right, right with us. And we behold that
how wonderful, how beautiful it is. And then this is all the colors of the every, I mean
all the five guys and the five wisdom, everything is completed within this single status. And
here, great Master Chaka Chororo explained this nature is. Now I just follow again this
one, this one with exactly as this. And here he said, all fortunate noble son and noble
daughter, listen, this right, this fresh monk, right, this present our awareness, fresh neck,
the nature is, nature of the three guys. It has five guys. It has five, five wisdom. Everything
is all the colors of the Buddha in the Sambo Gaya is completed within this status. And
when you look to this nature of the mind or to this nature, there's nothing you see, nothing
you can hold. Nature is emptiness. That aspect is Dharma Gaya Sambo. And this, that emptiness
is not just negation, negation state is brilliant, all the food, the qualities of all the clarity
qualities. And that is Sambo Gaya status, Sambo Gaya status. And there's also a union
of this emptiness and clarity is then has the energy of the unceasing. There's no interruptions,
continually arising energy. And that is the Narmakayas. Narmakayas, it is like, Dharma
Gaya quality is like crystal, unimpeded qualities. And Sambo Gaya call it of the net, Rupa is
clay and illuminous cities. And then that crystal, that union of the crisp emptiness
and the clarity status has called it of the unceasing displays of the old displays, displays
of the rainbow lights. And that is like Narmakayas. Those are the ordinary of these three Gayas.
And this is also has all the five
and this is five Gayas. No, five Dayan Buddha. Sorry, five Dayan Buddha. I mean, it's the
same five Gaya, five Dayan Buddha. Five Dayan Buddha, of course is the Buddha Verojana.
And Verojana in the Sanskrit word, in the Tibetan is called the number of namji. Number
of namji, if we translate it, the Buddha of the display, if we say that, and the second
is Buddha Renasambhava. That's a Sanskrit word. In the English, if we translate it, the Buddha
of the richness, all the treasures or source of treasures, that is the Rincim, Nyondi or
Renasambhava. And then the third one is Buddha Amitavas. That sounds good, but if we translate
that into English, it is called the Immeasurable light, Immeasurable light, light or Immeagurable
yeah, light. And then next one is Amogasadam. Amogasada means all the performance, all achievements
.
And the next one is the Buddha, then, Akshabhya, in the Tibetan, called Mokkyu Dorjim, means
uncheckable, indestructible Dorjim, all various sattva, means courageous ones, indestructible
courageous ones. So those are the name of the various sattva. That's the major sattva
for translations. So now we're kind of trying to apply that. So now first I said here, here,
and I mixed up a little bit, but first one is I said, Buddha Verojana. Verojana is what?
Verojana means displaying, appearance. So this mind is very, it's always active, appearing,
always mind, we can mind, the variety display of the mind comes. It's not just the one mind,
it's so many different mind, so many emotions, so many thoughts, so many conceptions, and good
and bad, all that comes, comes. That is the display of the Buddha Verojana, Verojana. And then next
one,
I think maybe I'll go with you exactly order this way. Next one is the Buddha Verojana Sattva or
the
Akkubya, Akkubya, and that means, Akkubya means indestructible, uncheckable, shakeable, uncheckable
Verojana, Verojana, and that means the mind is cannot be destroyed. That aspect cannot destroy
its mind. That aspect is the Buddha Akkubya. And then the next one is Buddha Renasambhava. Renasamb
hava
means mind is the source of everything, everything what you wish, it really comes. Of course, it
comes
on the mind, but then when you activate it, it continues to bring all three, everything, it kind
of brings everything, whether it's samsara, whether it's nirvana, whatever, it brings all the souls
. So
that aspect is, is Buddha Renasambhava. And then mind is, next one is mind, it has no, no, no
limitations.
This place is continually pervasive and continually is, is what's called pervasive in appearance,
but
it's just that there's nothing that mind can stop the appearance of the mind or the arising energy
of
the mind appearance. And therefore, it is called Amitabha, the infinite light, infinite disbelief,
disbelief. Then mind is, is from the mind, every, our achievement arises. Everything comes from the
mind. And for that reason, because of the mind, we can fulfill all the different goals and goals
and
aims. And therefore it is called, then called amogasithas. So that way, that way, the five
Dayana Buddhas also not different from, from our mind. It's all within the mind, this mind. And now
these five Vasudans also within our mind, mind too. And first is, is, is natural, nature of the
mind,
mind or the mind is completely open, emptiness, and there is anything that we cannot pinpoint,
or we can indicate anything is really beyond everything. That aspect is a Dhamma Dhatva systems,
or great like, like spaces, is mind is like space, there is nothing we can divide it, we can make
anything. That is Dhamma Dhatva systems. And then the second wisdom is a mirror like wisdom. And
everything, whatever comes, or whatever we see, all is reflecting to the mind, to our own mind,
everything, what's that means all the senses, all the object of the senses, the seeing, hearing,
and the smelling, and the tasting, touching, and as well as the concerning thought, all that
appears within the mind, mind to the mind. So that aspect, mind is like, is, is the mirror like
what's the, is the mirror. Even though everything appears on the mind, every, all those five object
was senses or five senses, whatever, all the appearance, there is nothing in the different
categories of the mind. All are merged in the one status, one single status. And that way,
in that aspect, is equanimity of systems. All is equal. There's no different partations, anything.
That is equanimity of systems, equanimity of systems. When arising those all qualities,
all qualities, that means again, all the five senses, the five objects, whatever arises. When
it arises, it's not something that is completely bloated, completely mixed up. In the mind, when
you see everything is so precise that clearly, and when you see the white, you see is a white. When
it is red, it is, you see red. When you see it is multiple colors, multiple colors, you see the
multiple colors, distinctly clearly perceiving exactly as it is. And that aspect is discrimination
awareness of wisdom. So that means when you hear things, when you see things, when you smell, when
you taste, when you touch, everything is so precise, so clearly you detected exactly as it is. That
aspect is the discrimination of wisdom, discrimination. And then because of the mind, as I said
early too,
then it is, we all complicate every performance, every activities, every activities we first we
initiated in the mind and then activate it and then we perform. And that is then the all
accomplished here of wisdom. So five wisdom within this status, within this mind, mind is, in
nature
of the mind is the embodiment of the five wisdom. And then sense of mind is embodiment of five
wisdom and the five chaos also there. As I said earlier too, five chaos within the mind or mind is
embodiment of five chaos. Dhammada, that we often in the teaching heard. Dhammada wisdom is buddha
vera kyanas. Dhammada wisdom. And then meralay wisdom is the buddha vajya sattva or the achobhyas.
And all economic wisdom is Dharana sambhavas. And then discrimination awareness wisdom is the budd
ha
amitavas. All a complicated wisdom is, is the amoka sattva. So that means those wisdoms,
when they are actively arising as the display of the poem, then they appear or those different
buddhas. This each buddha wisdom is, is like five person wisdom. Dhammada wisdom is like
veda vera kyana. That didn t mean they don t have other wisdoms. Each of those wisdoms has all the
five wisdoms too. That s what s called each of the five, each the dhyana buddha are surrounded
by with different five dhyana buddhas. Display, that s what in the teaching often said, say,
said 100 buddhas, all those buddhas. And even they said 100,000 buddhas. It s display of the wisd
oms
arise in the form of the, of the poems and the enlightenment beings. And the wisdom, when we talk
talking of wisdom, wisdom is not just a wisdom. Wisdom is a completely saturated combined with
the compassion and allowing kind of thoughts for all the beings, infinite love and the compassion.
Now we bring down all the, whether it s the five kya, whether it s the five wisdoms, whether it s
the
five dhyana buddhas, where is that all? It s all within our nature of the mind, or nature, our
nature of the mind. Where that is residing right now, according to Dokki teaching or in the
teaching
offering said, in our heart center. That is all residing in our heart center. Our nature of the
mind, our mind, nature of the mind, embodiment of the five dhyana buddhas, or all the enlightenment
.
All is all in the buddha, buddhas summon the buddha. And therefore, teaching mentioned,
don t look to buddha anywhere else. Your nature of the mind is the buddha. Don t search to anywhere
.
Every searching and trying to looking buddha, like to find somewhere, you will never going to find
anything except your own mind. That doesn t mean there is no buddha Amitabha. There is no other
buddha. They are according to the individual rich enlightenment. Buddha Shakyamuni also become the
buddha. Because the buddha walk for three countless years, rich enlightenment. There is many budd
has,
every different directions. But if you are trying to look to find to yourself, like Gint, Gint,
Gint Buddha, we have to search buddha from the within. Look buddha within, buddha is right here,
that. And that is to start with that. Then first, we start with meditation.
So to meditation is we discover the ordinary, absolute buddha. Or the buddha summon the buddha
or the dharma dhatu, wisdoms. Wisdoms. Always we discover that buddha. We discover all the five
dhyana buddhas. That means we, when we reach enlightenment in the teaching of the open-set,
teaching of the set, we reach enlightenment, your environment becomes the pure land, pure land of
that. So that means we become the buddha and all our environment is become the pure land and all
our display of the wisdoms become the display of the five dhyana buddha or five wisdoms or five
kayas. So five kayas, five wisdoms, five dhyana buddha is within us. We are all accepted or
completed of that qualities within us, that. So therefore here said it, said it. And again here
said it. Therefore, so everything, yeah, yeah, this, this is the, so that nature to discover that
we started with from the discovery of the innate nature of our own mind, nature of this great
emptiness. Why we have to do that now and that is according togat, togat, because we started just
looking to the other, those different qualities, we created dualities. That duality become the
then hindrance for our realization. For that reason, tattoo is so powerful because immediately
it cut the duality conception, touch to the core of the true nature and be connected to that and
when we discover that and call it this, then we apply for some toga practice, it becomes really
very powerful and very effective, effective in that. So now for that reason, here, here again,
the great master Shabka Taurunya says, so how to discover that? I mean, we already discussed
earlier,
earlier too, and you already know that, that many of you already know that. But to discover that
and again, relaxing our body, relaxing our speech as we discussed earlier or the last time, time
and the look to your mind. Don't make any trying to change to your mind, mind, mind, look to your
mind. That means again, as he's going to say, look to the lookers, look to the looker.